In this video we will covered about interfaces in Java, interfaces in Java.
We have already seen a little bit of example where we wanted to achieve multiple inheritance in Java.
So this is the more topmost advantage of interfaces in Java.
First is to achieve data abstraction and second one is to implement multiple inheritance, which is
not supported in Java.
We can do it with only interfaces.
So what is an interface?
It is a budget and Java programming language is defined as an abstract type used to specify the behavior
of a class.
So in interfaces you will just find method declarations and not the definitions.
Interface in Java is a blueprint of a class.
It acts as a blueprint of a class.
So the class which implement that interface, what all methods for it should implement, write it to
override or it should.
I have access to declaring it like a Java interface?
Constant static constants and abstract methods.
The interface in Java is a mechanism to achieve abstraction.
Yes, and there can only be or can be only abstract methods in the Java interface and not the method
body are used to achieve abstraction and multiple inheritance.
As I told you, these are the two key advantages benefits and purposes of using interfaces in Java.
Now leaders understand the difference between the class and interfaces.
In class you can instantiate variables and create an object in an interface.
You can't instantiate variables and create an object of an interface.
Class can contain concrete with implementation methods also, but the interface cannot contain concrete
methods.
The Xs specify the use of IT.
Classes are private, protected and public in interfaces only one specified is used that is public.
So these are the difference.
And apart from that, interfaces only has the abstract methods.
Right?
So let us get to the example of interface and check out interface example.
Right.
Okay.
So if you see the vehicle, so vehicle is a very generic category and you can have different types of
vehicles that is a bicycle, god drug, anything, right?
So we, what we are doing in this example, we are we are making interface of a vehicle, okay?
And the vehicle can have same methods.
I changed the gears, speed up, apply brakes.
These can be the common methods for the vehicles.
So we in the interface we will create this as an abstract method.
So if you can see it, there is a limited declaration and not definition, although an implementation
is written.
So now let us create another class that is bicycle, which implements the interface vehicle.
So when we want to extend or when we want to use the methods or inside the interface, we need to use
this key keyword implements with the interface.
So for inheritance we use extend skyward in when it's a class, but for interface we need to use implements
keyword.
So we are adding two integers in a speed and in here we are overwriting the interchanged yield via overriding
the method speed up and we are overwriting the method to apply.
So speed will be decrement data and we are printing the value of the speed and yield here.
Right.
So there there is another class which is bike.
Same way we override adding method of a change gears or speed of speed down apply brake.
Now let us see what we what we are writing in the driver class.
You first.
We are creating the object of bicycle class.
Then we are changing the gear to speeding up.
That is to try apply brakes to one.
Okay, they are creating object of the class bike.
We are changing gears here.
They are speeding up from for applying the brakes by prison state and bicycle prison state.
What is that it is found out and this that in this particular example you.
See bicycle parade in state is speed is equal to two, gear is equal to two.
After performing all this operations, what is the value of gear and what is the value of speed?
That is what it is showing.
Okay.
So in this case, both the classes, bike and bicycle are implementing the interface vehicle, which
act as a blueprint of these two classes there.
Then the the bicycle and bike should implement all these methods and.
The functionality of the glasses are dependent on the implementation of this method here.
Right then, as these methods are abstract data abstraction is achieved.
In this scenario, in this example, again, you can try this out with different example of interfaces
and let me know if you have any questions.
Thank you for watching.
Let's get to the next module.